[MUSIC]
>> Alexis: Prototypal Inheritance,
prototype based inheritance.
To me inheritance is a loose term.
But how we treat the concept
of inheritance in JavaScript.
Let's talk about prototypes,
prototype based inheritance.
How we can reuse methods or
functions in JavaScript in a smart way.
So, let's talk a little bit
about what we would maybe consider
unexpected behavior, but we're gonna talk
about how we can kinda manipulate
this to do some really smart things.
So, first thing that most
people will consider unexpected
is the concept of properties in
an inheritance tree somewhere.
So let's observe this code really quickly.
We have an animal function and inside
our constructor function we're gonna say
this.offspring and it will be in array.
So every time you create a new animal,
it will have a property called offspring
which will start out as an empty array.
Then, we're gonna create a dog and
the way we link
objects together, our constructs together,
is by saying something like
dog.prototype equals new animal.
This is what's gonna link our pro to
the prototype of our constructor,
I know that's a mouthful when you think
about all those big words at once, but
this is exactly what we had
on this little diagram.
Is we're creating a new object,
with its proto property, pointed to
animals prototype, in this case.
So that way, if you're looking for
some kind of method or property on dog, or
an instance of a dog, and it's not found,
it's gonna look up its proto-chain and
look for those same methods on animal.
Which makes sense.
That something we would want to behave.
Look for characteristics to all animals.
Bulldogs should have those
characteristics as well.
Then we're gonna do these next three
lines, were gonna create three new dogs.
Dog one, dog two, and pup.
Three new instances of dogs.
I think we're good there.
But this is the part where it gets
a little tricky, dog1.offspring,push,
cuz offspring is an array.
Dog1.offspring.push pup,
and technically we can push
anything on we want to, but
we're gonna push pup on there.
Dog2.offspring, what do you
guys think that's gonna be?
>> Alexis: Anybody?
>> Speaker 2: Just an MPRA.
>> Alexis: An MPRA.
>> Speaker 2: An array with pup in it.
>> Alexis: An array with pup in it.
Okay.
Yeah, these are good answers.
I would expect this to be
an empty array too, but it's not.
It is gonna be an array with pup in it.
And that's really weird, just looking and
taking this kind of code at face value.
But, we'll show you what
this looks like in memory.
And it's gonna make
a little bit more sense.
So, let's talk about,
this is shared property,
let's talk about adding methods on
a prototype, what this looks like.
So, we had a little bit of exposure
to it in the last exercise.
We had our speaks method, where we wanted
to walk up the proto chain, look for
a method and
then invoke it with our context.
Here we're gonna have an eats method.
All animals eat things.
No matter how far down you are on the
chain, as long as you inherit from animal,
you'll have the function,
the ability to eat things.
So here we're gonna have
Animal.prototype.eats.
And this function will
just say whatever this,
whatever the context we're using,
.name is eating.
That's all we're gonna do.
What this does in memory,
is it creates this kind of structure.
We have animal, which is a pointer to
a function, that function is gonna have
a prototype which is just an object, and
we've added an eats function on there.
Eats is a pointer to a new function
we've created, this is our footprint.
So when we come along and say,
sponge equals new Animal Bob.
This is our new animal we've created.
It's gonna create a new
object in memory and
it's gonna set the proto
property to Animals Prototype.
>> Alexis: It's a really tricky, or maybe
it's a hard to memorize distinction, but
a really really important.
A new object with its
proto property pointed to
the prototype of its constructor.
So animal, in this case,
is its constructor.
And then, we're going to invoke this
animals a method, we're gonna invoke
animal with the context of our new object,
which is this sponge down below.
And all we're doing inside the constructor
is setting the name property.
So list that name.
This is gonna be our sponge.
And its name pointer is going to point
to this new primitive string called Bob.